[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Numerous experts believe that
sound and vibration were used
to help build the world's
giant pyramids and temples.
What other roles has sound
played throughout humanity's
evolution?
Let's go back in time
to the King's Chamber
in the Pyramid of Giza.
That special room
holds amazing secrets
involving sound and resonance.
>> Anyone who has gone into the
Great Pyramid instantly notices
that there is an
acoustic factor.
>> The King's Chamber it
is a resonant chamber.
You walk into that and
you talk from the center
and you can hear the resonance
reverberating off the walls
as if there's 50 people talking
all at once but all in harmony
and chanting together.
>> It's shaped like
a gigantic box.
And this box has
another box inside.
Ironically, it's
the exact dimensions
of the Ark of the Covenant.
If you hit that stone
box with a mallet,
it creates a gong which then
creates a resonant frequency
inside of the King's Chamber.
And some people have experienced
out-of-body experiences,
almost like an astral projection
if they lay inside that stone
box when that gong is hit.
>> For the past 150 years or so,
archaeologists have been noting
that the pyramid appears to be
some kind of a giant musical
instrument.
And they start to look at the
materials of the construction
of the pyramid.
Notably, the King's
Chamber which
is composed of red granite,
the ancient Egyptians
referred to red granite
as a fire stone.
It's mostly pure quartz.
And quartz crystal we know
holds frequency or vibration.
>> If someone was chanting
inside the chamber and then all
that reverberation was
coming back from the chamber,
it would take them into an
altered state very quickly.
These were used as initiation
chambers or healing chambers.
They were working with sound.
>> It's at about 16.2 Hertz
which ironically is an octave
above the resonant frequency
of planet Earth itself,
which is about 8.1 Hertz.
So the Schumann
resonant frequency
of the Earth and
the King's Chamber
are directly linked together
by frequency and sound.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The traditional theory
is that the pyramid was
a tomb for the Pharaoh Khufu.
What we might
possibly be looking at
is an acoustic artifact
and it's not the only one.
>> In some of the Egyptian
temples, you see the obelisk.
I remember one time at Karnak,
there were two of them actually
and they kind of were along
the entrance to the temple.
And one of them had
been toppled over.
>> Some of them were tumbled
in modern times as we tried
to move them and take them
out of Egypt to bring them
to France and to
England and so on.
They're beautiful.
They're extremely precise.
>> If you knocked
on the top of it,
you could tell that it was
hollow and it was a resonant
chamber.
>> You don't need to hit it that
hard and the whole thing rings
like a tuning fork.
[RINGING SOUND]
>> Is it possible that
these ruins outline a global
energetic grid?
>> These things were like
antennas at the entrance
of the temple, supplying the
temple with very fundamental
frequencies of oscillation, that
maybe were part of a network
of temple that was supplied
by a power station--
that might have been the
pyramidal structures--
that was ringing the
whole limestone plate
that they were all sitting on
and transmitting information
or energy across very,
very large distances.
>> You find this throughout
the ancient world,
identification of
the power spots.
Build the buildings on it to
amplify and direct the energy,
and then make
pathways to circulate
that sacred power
spot energy to help
to nourish all of the energy
of the landscape around it.
>> There are energetic lines
that form grid patterns all
over the face of the Earth.
They have been extensively
studied and give various names
such as ley lines, geopathic
stress lines, banker, Hartmann,
Curry lines, and so on.
Many of them seem to be linear
high pressure concentrations
of ultra low frequency sound.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is it possible the energy
flowed in a similar way
to a cymatic experiment using
vibration to organize material
into some kind of global
pattern or a circuit board?
Or maybe there is a
musical connection.
>> These are very much
like resonance cavities
in relationship with each
other in various octaves
or overtones,
undertones relationship,
to produce a very specific
resonance field across very
large distances, maybe even
across the world from each
other.
>> They had an
ancient, quote unquote,
web so to speak that
existed in ancient times.
As a matter of fact, when you
go into the Temple of Horus
in Egypt, there's a
depiction of something
that's really amazing.
It's the Wi-Fi symbol,
emanating a frequency out
of an Egyptian
person's hand showing
that they had the capability
of understanding frequencies
through wireless technology.
They knew that their
cymatics worked in two ways.
One way to manipulate solid
matter and the other way
to manipulate the
unseen and also
send information wirelessly.
>> If we read the clues on the
hieroglyphs and temple walls,
a deeper understanding of
these resonance technologies is
revealed.
>> In ancient Egypt, one of the
fundamental symbols is the ankh
or the key of life.
Fundamentally, it's the
origin of the Christian cross.
It's a symbol of duality.
It unifies male and female.
You've got the phallic
upward and then
you've got the loop on top
that represents the female.
Is the key of life literally
a ketone or vibration?
I think it's
possible that it is.
>> There are many types of
objects from ancient Egypt that
send out very powerful
energetic emanations.
One that many people
are aware of today
is that of the Egyptian staff.
Most people know it actually
from the Old Testament
and Moses using the staff.
But it's very clear in all
of these ancient documents
that he was trained in
the Egyptian temples,
and he was using
the staff in the way
that it was trained in
the Egyptian temples
to be able to move energy.
That has to do with the
manipulation of natural forces,
including the parting of the
waters, parting of the Red Sea,
these types of things.
>> Thoth, also referred to
by the Greeks as Hermes,
was often depicted holding
the symbolic caduceus staff.
>> The caduceus is interesting
because it does have these
intertwining snakes.
Everywhere where
they intertwine,
it's another representation
of the seven chakras
in the human body, which
according to the ancient Hindus
resonate at specific
frequencies.
Each chakra has its own
frequency, its own resonance.
>> There are many, many
different forms of staffs,
and the shapes on them would
create different vibrational
effects.
You can move your
hand along the staff
and find a particular
link that was
like a wavelength
that was from the base
of the staff toward the top.
And like you were
tuning a musical string,
you could find a particular
resonant frequency point
to build a project or to
absorb energy from the staff.
>> Sound has been the ultimate
tool that humans have been
using in every culture on
Earth since the beginning to be
faster and deeper
and more profound.
It's the promise of sound, why
sound has always been used.
[RINGING SOUND]
>> Tibetan bowls.
[DRUMMING SOUND]
Drumming.
[CHANTING]
And chanting.
[HUMMING]
Hum chants.
[RECITING MANTRA]
Mantra.
All of it is powerful influence.
And part of the
reason is because it's
the first thing we
ever experienced
when we were in the
womb. it has the power
to dig to the deepest part
of who I am which is who I'm
trying to get to
anyhow when I meditate,
when I try to wake up.
I'm trying to get to this part.
>> Ancient cultures used
equinoxes, solstices,
new and full moons, and so on
in ceremonial ways to align
terrestrial life with
the harmonious rhythms
of the cosmos.
They did this to amplify
their spiritual evolution
which they felt to
be the underlying
purpose for life on Earth.
>> Research has found that
almost every ancient culture
on Earth seems to have
benefited from vibration-based
technologies.
>> At Chichen Itza, we find two
temple complexes together that
reveal a quite phenomenal
understanding by the ancient
Mayans in terms of
acoustic effects.
The Pyramid of
Kukulkan is devoted
to the God Kukulkan
who's called Quetzalcoatl
or the "feathered serpent."
The priest would
stand at the base
of the stairway of the Pyramid
of Kukulkan and clap his hands.
[CLAPPING AND CHIRPING SOUND]
And the clapping would
bounce off the steps
and give a chirping sound
strikingly similar to that
of the quetzal bird.
[CHIRPING]
>> And then at the same
time that you clap,
you hear the rattle of the snake
coming off the Warrior Temple.
They understood
frequency and vibration
so well that they
had the capability
of building an entire
complex based on that.
>> What was the purpose
of these sound effects?
>> The serpent symbolizes the
Earth and the bird symbolizes
the heavens.
It represents the duality
that's within all of us.
We're all part-heavenly
part-earthly creatures,
and the ideas that
we want to harmonize
those aspects within ourselves.
>> European ancestors
focused on a different aspect
of vibrational technologies.
>> Stonehenge is another
sound-related monument.
Anyone who's been there,
especially on a windy day
has heard Stonehenge literally
hum as the wind passes
over the Salisbury plain.
We know that many
of the bluestones
that compose Stonehenge
ring like a bell
when they're struck.
>> It's commonly believed that
the bluestones were quarried
200 miles away in Southwest
Wales and somehow hauled
to the Stonehenge site in
Salisbury Plain, England.
Researchers at
Harvard University
attempted to complete
a genetic study
to find descendants
of Stonehenge.
>> What they discovered through
this genetic study is that
within a few years after
building Stonehenge,
the builders of
Stonehenge vanished.
They're not in England,
they're not in Scotland,
they're not in Ireland.
And this dropped a bombshell in
the archaeological community.
So where did they go?
Well, if we go back to
the ancient legends that
says Stonehenge was built
by giants as a portal,
then you have to put two and
two together and at least ask
the question--
did they build
Stonehenge as some kind
of an acoustic-based portal?
The Maya population is
known to have vanished.
We also know that they had
advanced acoustical knowledge.
There are other cultures, the
Woodlands people in Nashville
practiced acoustic spiritual
practices, chanting and others.
They disappeared in
mass around 1350.
>> Fast forward a number of
centuries and we discover other
amazing acoustical relics
with mystical purposes.
>> The Hypogeum in Malta is
one of the world's oldest
underground temples.
As many as 7,000 bodies were
placed inside the cemetery,
so that gives you an idea
of the size of this place.
It was cut out of
the limestone and it
had these kind of
alveoli branching off
and these other
circular shaped rooms.
What we're told is
that when you're
standing inside this
dome-shaped room in the Hypogeum
is that it felt like
it rang like a bell.
And a voice inside that room
was amplified over 100 times.
- Hello.
[ECHOES]
>> What would be
the purpose of that?
Well, one thing that we know
is that the resonant frequency
of that room is 110 Hertz.
And at 110 Hertz, we know
that our left brain shuts down
and our right brain tends
to become more dominant.
So it appears that this
phenomena was created in order
to have an otherworldly effect.
The people could be
gathered in that room
and have their
right brain expanded
for the purpose of connecting
with otherworldly beings,
perhaps even deceased
beings or other beings
throughout the cosmos.
>> A number of secret societies
throughout the centuries wanted
to harness the ancient
technologies for their own
uses.
Perhaps to expand
their own consciousness
or to discover a deeper hidden
connection to the cosmos.
>> When the Knights Templar
returned from their excavations
at the Temple of
Solomon in Jerusalem,
they returned to France with
some kind of new knowledge that
most certainly had
to do with geometry,
but also had to do with sound.
[CHANTING] The cathedrals
are giant wind instruments.
They are meant to be
activated by the power
of the chanting that
is going on within,
especially the
Gregorian Chants that
were chanted in those buildings
and also the pipe organs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As this building begins to
vibrate with this sound,
in a Christian sense, it's
bringing you closer to God.
But it's also undoubtedly
having the effect
of expanding our consciousness.
While the cathedrals aren't
viewed as portals or gateways,
it's also possible
however that secretly that
could have been used
for that purpose.
In Christian art, you'll see
ascension images of Jesus.
He'll be sitting
on a throne, which
is the Ark of the
Covenant, but he's
surrounded by
concentric rings that
clearly indicate the idea
of a portal or a gateway.
It could be that
that is a portal
or it could also equally
be a sound or a vibration
that he has harnessed that is
opening that portal or gateway.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Another piece of this
primordial puzzle involves
mathematical calculations.
>> I went to Mexico
to Teotihuacan.
The Teotihuacan plateau is very
similar in its configuration
to the Giza plateau.
I noticed that the
number 72 was built
all throughout the
construction of Teotihuacan.
In fact, the entire Avenue
of the dead was 432 meters.
Another thing I noticed
was that the height
of the Pyramid of the Sun was
216 feet, which is half of 432,
just an octave lower.
Now, another thing that we find
that is irrevocably tied to 432
is that if we inscribe the
Great Pyramid within a sphere,
it would become a sphere that
would be a replica at scale
of 1 to 43,200.
I can't believe
that that's going
to be any kind of coincidence.
>> The Sun, Saturn, Moon, and
the Earth all exhibit ratios
of the number of 432.
Many ancient megalithic
sites including
Avebury and Stonehenge yield the
number 432 in their geometries
and alignments.
>> The Great Pyramid contains a
sarcophagus that some say will
produce the tone 432
Hertz when it struck.
Again, we find a thread
of musical connection.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> Musical systems in the
Western tradition tend to be
tuned to a standardized
A equals 440 Hertz.
That we settled on maybe
just 100 years ago.
It just was decided
upon by counsel.
But there were other systems.
>> Tuning the dates all the way
back to Pythagoras and perhaps
earlier is associated
with 432 Hertz.
>> In Pythagorean tuning, the
relative ratio of one note
to the next note
followed the golden mean,
it was the golden ratio.
Now, our standard
tuning is just slightly
different from the
Pythagorean tuning,
but the Pythagorean tuning
is more natural to our voice.
It's more natural to our ears to
hear and tune an instrument to.
[PIANO MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Let's take a listen to our
modern versus ancient tuning
practices to detect the
difference between 440 Hertz
and 432 Hertz.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> We shouldn't be listening in
my opinion to music that is not
summing to the number 9 because
this is creating a very subtle
incoherency.
I fundamentally
believe that geometry
is the fundamental
coherence of consciousness.
So therefore, music should also
be coherent to that geometry.
>> We've also seen an evolution
in our numerical systems.
Many countries around the
world rely on a decimal
or base-10 numerical system.
Perhaps because people learn to
count using their 10 fingers.
But the duodecimal
system or 12-based math
offers greater
mathematical coherence.
>> If I were actually
starting a measurement system,
I probably wouldn't start
with a base-10 system.
It's inferior for many reasons.
Number one, the number of
its factors or divisors,
the numbers that it can be
divided into whole number
values into is half the number
of numerical representation
for a base-12 system.
And a base-60 number
is very, very superior
from this standpoint
because we can even
express one-third of 60 as 20.
We don't need a
fraction of 0.3333333
extending on infinitely.
The Sumerians, I
believe, figured this
out where they
learned how to count
based on the number of
knuckles and their fingers.
So it was 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
And then they would use this
hand to count each group of 12.
So 12, 24, 36, 48, 60.
I fundamentally believe that
the Sumerians or whoever
it was that gave this
knowledge to the Sumerians
or some predecessor
civilization here on Earth
or possibly beyond embedded
within that knowledge very
profound wisdom, that we
can all benefit from today.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Could it be that human
civilization once benefited
from a powerful source of
intelligence then lost it,
but may once again possess
it for the good of humanity?
Can we restore the ancient
power grids around the world
and within ourselves?
>> Every person has a particular
net grid matrix of energy.
One of the great secrets
of the ancient traditions
is to know what types
of vibrational qualities
to apply to the energy field
or to specific energy centers
to be able to ripen them like
a plant growing from a seed,
because these energy
centers in the human body
are like unripened seeds.
And applying the correct
vibration to them
is like applying
water and sunlight.
>> Like a lotus flower, human
beings can then blossom,
bringing a change of
consciousness both within
and outside themselves.
>> As we learn this, it's
going to enable us ultimately
to develop technologies based
on this acoustic science.
Perhaps free energy
devices, perhaps even
we'll be able to use the pyramid
for its original purpose, which
according to the ancient
Egyptians the Great Pyramid
itself was a portal or
a gateway to the stars.
>> Coming up next on
Sound of Creation.
There is a saying in
Sanskrit that frequency
is the mother of nature
and rhythm is its father.
Let's explore the ebb and
flow of tides, Moon phases,
the changes of seasons, and
all of the great rhythms
that reflect the harmony and
the mystery of the cosmos.
[MUSIC PLAYING]